---
title: What is ChatGPT? How you can use ChatGPT as beginner? Is ChatGPT a threat to the job market?
category: Trends
image: "/assets/ChatGPT.png"
header-img: "/assets/ChatGPT.png"
keywords: [what is chatgpt, chatgpt chatbot, chatgpt vs google, ai chatbot, open ai, how to use chatgpt, chatgpt a beginner guide, use chatgpt, lamda2]
permalink: /what-is-chatgpt/
description: In this blog post, I've described what ChatGPT is, how it functions, and why it won't endanger programmers or content developers.
---

ChatGPT is currently one of the most popular topics. It's only been a few months since its release, and people's minds are still in awe of what it can do. It is also breaking records, with over 1 million users signing up in 5 days, faster than Netflix, Facebook, or Instagram. No longer will you be Googling solutions to problems because ChatGPT breaks them down in minute detail and explains how they work. That may cause people to wonder how relevant Google will be in the future. Do you want to learn about the limitations of typescript?, ChatGPT has you covered. But what exactly is ChatGPT, and what makes it so powerful?

## A brief history and definition
GPT in the Chat GPT is an abbreviation for (Generative Pre-trained transformer). This artificial intelligence model has already been trained. Let's dig deeper into this.

What is the best way to explain cats to a child? You show them the picture and point out any cats you see, whether in the basement, on the street, or in a park. When you do this repeatedly, the child learns that, yes, that is a cat. That is precisely how AI models are trained. Instead of 10-20 examples, you provide several data points varying in shape, size, color, and appearance. However, this is where biases can creep in. This "number of data points" is not definitive. If the data provided to AI models is incomplete or does not include everything, the answer provided by an AI when asked what is cat will be puzzling and incorrect.

Google Brain created Transformer in 2007. Eight years later, in 2015, OpenAI (a new company) chose the Transformer approach and began work on ChatGPI, which was released in 2022. People who believe it is some revolutionary discovery that threatens Google should sit down because Google invented the T in ChatGPT.

Google must be like - Don't teach your father how to cook.

ChatGPT was created by the same team that created OpenAI, which is now influencing some fascinating technologies. They have been developing powerful engines such as the Codex. Codex powers GitHub co-pilot and is already being used by many of us in our day-to-day coding on VS code. If you look closely, you might notice the early stages of ChatGPT, in which users enter prompts and receive results from an AI-generated system.

DALL.E 2, a picture generator based on suggestions you enter, is another example. Here, you can find many distinct representations of a spaceman riding a horse, as well as many other instances, some of which go beyond traditional art. ChatGPT is, therefore, a way of prompting an AI to solve or answer a question or a prompt in a human-like manner, very different from anything else we've seen before. In case you didn't know, GPT chat is completely free. 

## How to use ChatGPT?
If you want to try it out, go to [OpenAI](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt/), create a new account, and then select the chat [GPT interface](https://chat.openai.com/). I like the design. It's simple, and it shows you some examples. It also displays some of ChatGPT's capabilities and limitations.

Some of these capabilities are quite powerful. Things like remembering what a user said in a conversation and providing follow-up corrections.

## My first conversation?
The first thing I wanted to see was can it tell me how to create a Jira board, which it did, with some caveats. The response was nearly perfect. Because I had never created a Jira board before, I asked if it could provide me with some best practices. It not only wrote the procedures which I could copy and paste to build a Jira tutorial, but it also explained the codes, filters, and strings we use.

In addition, I pasted the article's content into ChatGPT and requested peer review. I was astounded by the response I received. The structure, gaps in my blog, and other things were among the comments I received. For a brief moment, I thought someone on the backend had read my article and provided this feedback, but then I realized it was AI. And it makes me wonder about the future of content development because this could serve as a personal content checker.

It has a lot of relevance outside of content development, given that ChatGPT applies to just about whatever we want to create. Would you like a list of carbohydrate-free foods? It provides omelets, shrimp, and grilled chicken as its three menu items. I went a step further and asked if it could create a grocery list based on those meals, and voila! It provided me a list of the groceries I needed and even indented them to make them easier to read.

## Is ChatGPT better than Google? ChatGPT vs Google? 
ChatGPT is still in its early stages; it has a long way to go before we say it can threaten Google. Don't forget that Google has **[LaMDA2](https://blog.google/technology/ai/lamda/)**, which, according to what I've read, is one step ahead of ChaGPT. Why?

If you ask ChatGPT to write an essay about a five-legged horse, it will do so without question. Lambda2, on the other hand, will ask questions, try to understand your problem, and only then will it provide you with answers.

However, because LaMDA2 is still in the works, ChatGPT has the upper hand for the time being.

| Google                                                                                               | ChatGPT                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Google relies on keywords to provide search results, and the results are plenty for a given keyword. | ChatGPT can read your entire sentence and process it to provide you with the exact result/answer.                                        |
| Google search does not remember user's patterns and preferences.                                     | ChatGPT can remember your conversations with it. And the next time you ask a question, it will try to be more specific in its responses. |


<br>
I believe that GPT chat is here to stay. It will become a part of our daily lives in the same way that Google has. It may revolutionise many industries and technlogies once they fully utilise it. That is just my opinion. What are your thoughts? Please let me know in the comments section below.