---
title: COVID-19 and Technical Writing
category: technical-writing
permalink: /Covid19andTechnicalWriting/
description: In this blog post, I've explained my learning strategy. I've been following this strategy for quite some time now, and the results are just amazing. I like to call it "Learning in an agile environment." I'm sure it will help you in learning something useful in these trying times.
---

We are living in unprecedented times. COVID-19 has caused havoc everywhere, from businesses to personal and professional life. We hear news of layoffs everywhere and almost every day. Everyone is trying to navigate through these circumstances, almost unhurt. But is it possible?

> Best investments are done in a crisis.

In these troubling times, you must not waste a single minute in deciding where you want to put your thoughts and efforts.

**What a technical writer should do?**

The only time-tested mantra is to invest in yourself. I'm sure you'd have already heard about it many times and from many sources; therefore, in this blog, I'm only trying to prepare you for the same.

## The story beings with the truth...

Fear drives you in times like these. Fear makes you realize that you need to learn and unlearn many things and make yourself more relevant to the job market. You seek help. You then blend your research with the advice that you receive and come to the conclusion that you need to learn this XYZ technology.

The very next day, with all the excitement and adrenaline rush, you start learning the stuff you decided. But slowly, maybe after a day or two, reality dawns upon you, and you find it very hard to maintain the intensity you began with.

I'm sure many of you have been through this situation. And almost all of you might have left learning the new stuff that you decided. Yes?

**Have you ever thought, why?**

> Fear drove you instead of a goal.

Goals must drive you, not fear. Goals motivate you, motivation leads to commitment, commitment leads to persistence, and persistence leads to success.

**What to do?**

Well, you should first ask the following questions to yourself:

 - What do I want to learn and why?   
 - Will it help me personally or professionally? (I feel that whenever you learn something only for personal use, it gives maximum dividends)
 - How much time do I need to learn this new stuff?
 - How will I measure my learning curve?

When you get answers to these four questions, then probably you are ready to take the next step, which is Learning.

> For sure shot results, learn in an agile environment.

## What is learning in an agile environment?

If I may speak in one sentence, it's like having smaller aims to achieve a bigger goal.

 1. To learn in an agile environment, follow these rules:
 2. Plan how much you can learn the XYZ technology in a week.
 3. After a week, present your learning to your friends and family.
 4. Take feedback.
 5. Next week, start with rule one.

Ensure that you do not plan everything at the beginning. Additionally, if your goal is too big, and you think it may take you more than two to three years to achieve it. Then, I'm sorry to say, it's more of a wish than goal.

> Fulfilling wishes needs team. Remember, you are a lone wolf.

## My story

I did not like programming since...I don't know. That does not mean that I did not know it. But, this lockdown that we had due to COVID-19 changed everything for me. It not only gave a new direction to my career, but also helped me in building a new skillset. It would be reasonably true to say that this stuation is the birthplace of this blog. Good thing, No?

I learned Jekyll, Amazon's AWS, Github, Liquid, Markdown, and Bootstrap (to say the least). I'm not trying to say that I've championed these technologies. But, all I've learned is in front of you in the form of this blog.

**What all things you can learn?**

I'm not here to advise you on the skills you should learn as I'm not sure what you want to accomplish. All I can say, don't restrict yourself. Being a technical writer, if you want to learn Data Science, go for it. If you want to learn .NET, go for it.

There is some basic stuff though that you can learn as a technical writer:

 - API documentation
 - Software such as MadCap Flare or Framemaker
 - Languages such as HTML5, CSS, Markdown, or XML
 - Image capturing tools such as Snagit
 - MS Visio and other products in Microsoft Office suite
   
In the future, you will get the tutorials on all of these tools and technologies in my blog. So, do not forget to check out the Tutorials menu.

Any questions, please leave a comment, and I'll try to answer it to the best of my capabilities.

Take Care!